---
title: "Programmer MacBook Keyboard layout"
#description: A personal defined MacBook Keyboard.
date: 2023-03-26T19:23:56+08:00
draft: false
toc: true
image: ""
tags: ["keyboard"]
categories: []
---

# Intro
GPT-4, was officially launched on March 13, 2023. The previous version
GPT-3 left an impression to public, GPT perform intelligent enough to
parallel with human. [the model of gpt]() shorten for GPT, which trained
with the most significant parametertic and huge data base. Thanks to its size,
GPT is capability to perform natural conservation, code generation, text
generation, text summarizing and more. Many products have integrated with gpt, 
copliot, a code generated responing to user comment, bing, a modern AI searching 
engine, extrat the keyword from user, filter result to ensure most related 
information are prompted. However, concerning its dual use natural [1](), the 
worriness of illigeal and immoral usage of AI come, especially Chat-GPT.

# Thesis


# Main
## Problem
Currently, limitation of using GPT to generate text is no well discussed.
Attension need to paid on the illegeal and immoral use of AI. Illegeal usage
means using AI to generate publishing mail or generate deepfake that damage
interset of victim. Immoral usage are like pushing fake news to the Internet,
generated propaganda, while they may not damage any's interest, but may destory
others user expperience on the Internet.

In this essay, illegal and immoral usage will focus on generated misinformation
from gpt.

Since OpenAI are now accessable by public, even some conutries are not accessed
initialy, user of those countries can still use GPT service throught the
connection of VPN. The cost to generate fake news is low, simpley enter a
prompt, gpt can generate a fake news in a few sentence. Moreover, limitation of
GPT access disappear currently [2](), guidelines from OpenAI is not enough to stop
user perform malicious action.

### causes
There are causes that arise the concerning. Firstly, gpt is easy to use, user
conservate to gpt by plain text through prompt. The conservation is natural,
human like, and fast [3](). Anyone that can read and write can use GPT without
learning, which bring the user a powerful tools that are out of the box without
the need of configuration or train their privacy language model from scratch. 

Secondly, GPT is free. Although the more powerful version of GPT-4 have to 
access with a paid subscription. The open version GPT-3 can still perfrom 
natural conservation and handle text operation [3](). Hence, no limitation and 
rigid rule that can prevent user from generating fake news. This version has no 
limit of token of prompt and response. Therefore, user can generate branch of 
fakes from gpt and post to Internet.

Last but no least, GPT is powerful, strong in processing text and well 
interrupting user prompt [5](). Write fully fluent text which is difficult to 
distinguish from human or machine-generated [6](). The generation last for very 
short period, A huge amount of text can be generated easily. Moreover, OpenAI 
has open their API keys to public, which allow user to interact with gpt outside 
the Website [website of chagtgpt]() or desktop application [ the link to download 
gpt desktop]() and redirect the response to other platform.  More details about 
API key will be disuccsion further.

### demo
<!--
TODO: explaiation of API, python code demonstration. What is jailbreak prompt, 
DAN and its demo
-->

### consequence
This will lead to two negative consequences. First, more inrevalvant, untrusted, 
usefullness and misleading information will spread through the Internet.  
Second, propaganda and misinformation can be create to attack public event, for 
example, spread out misinformation to claim that vacciane is not safe.

The first consequence is the possible future that the environment of Internet 
and the quality of inforamtion may be greatly damged. Every user can post their 
infomration and point of view to the internet freely, without any limit [7](). The 
important of High quailty and trustable inforamtion of online because the fact 
that modern workflow relay seriously on Internet, the way public searching and 
make decidion can rootly relay on searching engine [research about the method we 
searching]().  Much of the information we get comes from online [proof].  If 
online information become untrustable, Biased and incompleted opinion may made.

<!--
TODO: example: stack overflow ban the use of GPT because GPT are not always 
giving true answer.
-->

The second consequence is that user can automate propaganda generation to make 
virtual power that comment fake or biased opinion under public event like 
election, which may finally effect the original voting direction of voter. [One 
research show that internet is one of the main source voter know news to make 
their voting](). it can influence voters and skew election outcomes. This 
undermines the basic principles of democracy, which require free and fair 
elections and an informed electorate. It also has the potential to cause social 
and political unrest, erode trust in institutions, and damage the integrity of 
the electoral process. 

## Solutions
To address the problem, there are three suggestted solutions that may solve the 
problem. They are Searching Engine integreted with AI, Teaching a Moral True AI 
and Limit the power of AI open to public. More details of the solution will be 
discussied.

<!--
TODO: may be delete
-->
First, integrete AI into engine. By adding the power of AI to help filter the 
noise when searching, once again, searching on the internet is one of most 
efficient way to get the information [searching is important to get info]().  
The needs of AI are to elimate the noise during search, provide more accruate, 
related and useful information. One of the example is Bing Chat, the newest 
engine from Microsoft [source of Bing Chat](). Bing Chat will first ask user 
prompt what they want to search, then it will extract the keywords and perfrom 
searching and provide the closest information and related sourse that may needed 
by user [how bing chat works?](link). The advantages compare to tranditional 
search engine is Bing Chat will automate search information that may be further 
needed, unlink chrome, user have to search result manually if infomartion is not 
found in one shoot. Moreover, Bing Chat will extract paragraph from the source 
and give a short summary [bin chat summary text from source](), which required 
reading maually in traditional search engine.  Although the accuracy of 
searching result has improved, summary of source were given, the searching time 
may increase as side effect. More steps are requied before response to user.  
Searching will be done after prompt is being converted.  Nevertheless, accurate 
result is easier to be located with help of AI, the cost is acceptable to avoid 
omit biased or untrusted inforamtion.

Second, build an Moral true AI algorithm. Moral true AI [def of morla ture]() 
means AI should deny the malicious requests, for example If user ask for writing 
China are going to start nuclear war, GPT should be able to know that it is a 
inappropriate request and should stop generating response. Because AI may not 
distinguish fake and real in points of teahnique [AI cannot distinguish ture and 
false](). More restruction should be added to avoid gray area. Besides fake 
news, biased opintion should alsos be avoided. To shown it is workable, please 
consider this example, [I ask dan gpt to write fake news](link) I try to ask GPT 
to create a biased information about dangerous of vacciane. However GPT has 
denied my request. Therefore, A moral true AI that can refuse inappropriate 
requests is possible to implement. However, those inner rules are able to be 
overwritten by some special prompt. For example, a prompt call DAN(Do Anything 
Now): [quotation of 
DAN](https://gist.github.com/coolaj86/6f4f7b30129b0251f61fa7baaa881516) [also 
here](https://www.jailbreakchat.com/), DAN prompt is desiged by Redidt user 
[source dan 8.0](https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPT/comments/110712f/dan_80/). In 
the prompt, gpt are enabled to response to any further prompt without any 
restrictions, and therefore stepside the content policy enforced by OpenAI. The 
same request to write fake new about China is going to start nuclear way is 
asked again but with DAN prompt given first. Please see the demonstration: [demo 
of dan with same topic about dangerous vacciane](). Please rise attention that 
DAN has created a biased claims responsing the writing request.

Thirdly, ban the user continuously opposite OpenAI policy. User should first 
receive warning if they keep giving jailbreak prompt, then tempoary suspend the 
user access to gpt, if the user receive numbers of  warning in period time, for 
example 3 warning in 3 minutes, this user account should be banned. The same 
barries as pervious solution, whether it is possible to implement. The solution 
comes into recongize pattern from text, it can be done by training another 
machine learning model without involving GPT itself. [why mahcine learning is 
enough, example](). Due to nature of machine learning, data is required to 
improve the accuracy, user data may need to be collected for training, and it 
may encounter user data privacy. Moreover, the ML algorithm may not catch all 
inappropriate prompts since ML does not ensure 100% accuracy.

Lastly, limit the access chance of AI tools. Including increase the price of AI 
application and limit the avaiable access times. First, Increaes the price of 
AI, as an example, GPT 4 is now only aviaalbe by paid subscrption user. Setting 
a high price can reduce the inappropriate usage of AI, because it is pricy, GPT 
4 count at token, words both in prompt and response will count in payment, it 
should be reduce current user using GPT to create propaganda. Second, limit the 
access time, once user have access above certain times per period of time, user 
can only use the service until next cycle. Considering current free version of 
GPT 3, the using time is non-boundaried, and the cost to generate text is 
subtle. By increase the cost of AI tools, motivation to share fake news 
generated by AI onto the internet should be lower. However, it is unfair to 
other user [data of how much user following the guideline when browser 
internet]() who have follow the guidelines enforced by OpenAI, 殃及池魚.  
Moreover, increase the initial price of GPT product may bring unbalance 
advantages to OpenAI, which make the compeition among different AI company and 
commerical group unfair. As OpenAI is currently the only company owning the 
largest scale language model.  [furthur prove](). Company or indiviuals need pay 
to OpenAI for the access right of gpt. Note that the development guidelines of 
OpenAI has including provide open AI to public, increase the price in order to 
reduce the percentage of user clearly violate. [guideline of OpenAI](). 

## Conculsion
In conculsion, group of users may derviate from the initial intend of OpenAI 
about the usage of their AI product, which can increase the numbers of fakes, 
spreading propaganda easier and decrease the quality of Internet information.  
However, forcing gpt to deny inappropriate request from user would be the 
ultimate solution. Preventing user try to generate fake from gpt should catch 
and elimate the root of the problems. Further action can be taken like combine 
solution three and two, after finding user intends to generate response that 
violate OpenAI policy serveral times in period of time, the user should receive 
warning, suppended or banned depending on numbers of times user's inappropriate 
usage. AI is a double-edge sword, society may or may not benefit from, depending 
on how society decide to apply AI application. However, it is unforuntlately 
that we cannot control user's behaviour, preventation should be taken before the 
problems become obvious.
